In the last video we saw that we could re deliver all the events that have ever been emitted, but that
was probably not the best strategy in the world.
So in this video, we're going to take a look at a very complementary option to this idea of re delivering
all events that have been emitted in the past.
The option we're going to take a look at is something called a durable subscription.
A durable subscription is going to be created when we give an identifier to a subscription.
Let's first go and take a look at how we do that.
Back inside, my editor, I'm going to once again find this option stuff and I'll turn on another method
called right here of set durable name.
This is how we create a durable subscription.
When we call set durable name, we're going to put in a string that's going to serve as the name or
the identifier for the subscription.
We're usually going to provide a name that kind of names or is the same name as this overall service.
So I inside of here would put in something like say order service or accounting service or whatever
we are trying to build up.
So what does a durable subscription actually do?
Well, let's imagine that we create a well subscription with the name or ID of ABC.
One, two, three.
When we create that subscription and that's internally inside of the channel that we are subscribing
to or listening to, is going to create a record listing all the different verbal subscriptions that
we have.
Then whenever we emit an event, NASA's going to record whether or not this subscription has received
and successfully processed that event.
So let's imagine that we emit event right here, number one, or sequence number one that's going to
go over to our service.
And our service might then acknowledge this event and say, okay, I have successfully processed this.
As soon as that has been successfully processed and that's is going to store a little record next to
this verbal subscription.
And it's going to say, okay, ABC one, two, three has processed.
Event number one successfully.
So now let's imagine that for some reason our account service goes offline temporarily for some point
on time, and maybe while it is offline, we then emit events two and three.
So that service is no longer online to receive this.
But internally, NASA's going to keep a record of all the different events that ABC one, two, three
has missed out on.
So it's going to say, okay, number two right here, ABC one, two, three has not processed this and
three, ABC one, two, three has not processed this.
Then whenever our account service comes back online and reconnects with the exact same ID right there,
it has to be the same.
Now, this is going to take a look at that subscription ID or the verbal name, and it's going to say,
okay, for ABC, one, two, three, you have already processed event number one, but you have not
processed two and three.
So it will take two and throw it over and it will take three and throw it over.
And then once the account service processes those, they will be marked as processed.
And.
Processed.
So a durable subscription is really fantastic and making sure that our services never miss out in an
event and also make sure that we do not erroneously reprocess events in the future, which was kind
of the downside of this whole set deliver all available option.
Now, quick question here.
Do we still need an option of set deliver all available if we are using set terrible name?
The answer is yes.
So set, set, deliver.
All available is going to make sure that the very first time.
Better subscription is created like, let's say.
That we emit one and two before our service has ever been created.
Let's imagine those are kind of sitting in history.
As kind of records.
Hey, we already emitted these things at some point in time in the past.
If we then bring account service online for the very, very first time.
And it has that option of set deliver all available.
Then for the first time only Nats is going to make sure that it takes all those events from the past
and deliver them to that service and add them as being delivered to ABC.
One, two, three.
And that is only going to happen for the very first time.
We create the subscription.
So this set deliver all available is still a necessity because the very first time we bring the service
up online, we're going to get all the events that have been emitted in the past, which is fantastic
because we can make sure that we don't miss out any data.
But then because we also have the verbal name here, those events we had delivered in the past will
be marked as delivered.
So then whenever we restart the account service, let's say we restart this for some reason or we bring
another subscription online.
Well, we have already delivered one and two.
So even though we have set deliver all available, that will be ignored on any restart.
So this option right here is really just used for the very first time.
We bring the durable name subscription online.
All right, let's now save this file.
We're going to go over to our terminal and test this out.
I want you to know that when we go and test this out, even though we should only see all of our things
get re delivered just one time, and then after that we should not get any re delivery because all the
previously admitted events have been marked as read by this turbo subscription.
That is not quite what we're going to see.
So let's just go take a look.
All right.
So back over here.
I'm going to restart this.
You'll notice that every single time I restart it, I get all these different events re delivered.
And that is very much contrary to what I just said was going to happen.
I just said that the very first time we start this thing up, we're going to deliver all available.
We're then going to set up the subscription name of accounting service and then for any restart, because
the subscription of accounting service has already gotten everything available, it should not get any
re delivery.
So what's going on here?
Well, this is a little bit of a gotcha.
Remember, every single time.
That we restart this terminal window, we are closing out our connection to nets and we are reconnecting
in that very short window where we close out the entire connection.
Nats is saying, oh, that client disconnected, that was the client with this subscription or this
durable subscription.
Since they disconnected, I guess they're probably never going to come back at any point in time in
the future.
So I'm going to wipe out that history of that durable name.
So for that, just because that very, very small disconnect window Nats is going to say, let's just
dump this history about that durable subscription.
They're probably not going to come back.
Right?
So that's obviously kind of a big downside to this approach.
Just because our service goes down for half a second, we're going to throw out that subscription.
Well, it turns out that we can kind of use one other option we've already spoken about to solve this
whole issue.
So we're going to reintroduce our group inside of that.
Stan, subscribe to remember.
That's going to be the second argument.
That's going to be a string.
And I'll put in my Q group name.
Like so.
So by adding in the Q group right here, it's going to make sure that even if we very temporarily disconnect
all clients or all subscriptions with this durable name, it will not dump the entire durable subscription.
So just by adding on the Q group, even if all of our different services inside this Q group go down,
NASA's going to persist that durable name subscription.
So let's start saving this now.
I'll then go back over to my terminal the very first time we start up.
We do get all of our events delivered, but if now I restart this, we're not going to get any re delivery
because again, by adding in that Q group along with the durable name, it makes sure that every time
or for some very brief period of time that everything goes offline.
The durable subscription does not get completely dumped.
Now at this point, I just want to really highlight how the set deliver all available, this durable
name and the Q group name.
These three options really all mesh together extremely well, and they give us the exact behavior that
we are really, really looking for.
So we just need to remember that for every subscription we create, we are probably always going to
use set, deliver all available that we can get all the events that have been emitted in the past.
We're going to use set durable name to make sure that we keep track of all the different events that
have gone to this subscription or the SKU group, even if it goes offline for a little bit.
And then finally, we're going to use this cue group to make sure that we do not accidentally dump the
durable name, even if all of our services restart for a very brief period of time, and to make sure
that all these emitted events only go off to one instance of our services, even if we are running multiple
instances.
So again, cue group, name, set, deliver, all available and set verbal name, very, very tightly
coupled options.
So now very last thing, I want to go in and restart the second listener.
When we restart the second one, it should not try to get a list of all the previous events because
all previous events have already been emitted into this durable cue group.
And finally, I should be able to publish another one.
Yeah, it still gets received over here.
All right, so that's pretty much it.
These three options totally key.
Deliver all available verbal name and the Q Group.
Let's take a pause right here and continue in just a moment.